# **Growth vs Fixed Mindsets - How it applies to The Iron Yard**

### **Outline**

* **Introduction**
* **Body**
    * Growth vs Fixed Mindset
      * Fixed traits
      * Growth traits
    * An Example - Learning to play the guitar
         * Natural ability
         * Love the challenge
    * How to apply - TIY
      * Acknowledge traits
      * Embrace failures
      * Think process first
* **Conclusion**

### **Rough Draft**

The growth mindset versus fixed mindset debate encompasses two ways of thinking related to individuals and their abilities to learn. Central to the debate is the belief that individuals are either pre-destined to obtain a certain level of intelligence, or that intelligence is fostered in all individuals through proper teaching techniques. Stanford professor Carol Dweck has discussed this "Nature vs Nurture" debate at length and champions the growth mindset as the most effective way to develop intelligence at a high level in any individual. Based on her research, it is clear that a growth mindset, and all the traits it entails, gives students at The Iron Yard the best chance to reach their full potential.

Several distinct traits are associated with growth and fixed mindsets. Common traits associated with a fixed mindset include a desire to cheat, to run from difficulty, to look for someone worse, and to believe that some people are just born with natural ability. Conversely, common traits associated with a growth mindset include the desire to engage deeply, to appreciate a challenge, to believe that intelligence can be developed, and an overall increase in confidence and happiness. Dr. Dweck has identified the fundamental steps required to shift from a fixed to growth mindset as a means for individuals to reach their full potential. The process, which she refers to as bridging the gap from not yet to yet, includes three steps: praise, reward process, and change mindsets. Educators, parents, and mentors should consider the appropriate way to give praise, reward process, and change the mindset of pupils. In doing so, pupils will display more effort, strategies, engagement, and perserverance than peers stuck in a fixed mindset.

Recently, I experienced traits on both ends of the mindset spectrum. Attempting to accomplish a long-time goal, I began learning the guitar in December 2014. Within days, I was sure I would never reach a competent level of playing ability and considered quitting. I was sure that people must be born with natural ability, and I was not one of those people. The trait I displayed was a classic result of a fixed mindset. However, I committed to a daily practice routine and slowly saw incremental improvement. Within months, I began receiving praise from friends about my hard work and practice time paying off. While they did not make outrageous claims about me mastering the guitar, they motivated me to continue practicing in the future. My friends had praised me in a way that rewarded my process, and in turn it fostered a growth mindset within me. Going foward, I am confident that I will continue making incremental improvements if I continue my commitment to my practice routine.

At The Iron Yard, it is easy to see the ways a person can fall into a fixed mindset trap. The course material is presented in an intensive way that leads to repeated failures as a student, undoubtedly leading to thoughts of natural ability as a factor. However, by acknowledging that failure is part of the process and necessary for development, I believe it is possible to maintain the appropriate growth mindset needed for success. Throughout the course, I plan to embrace each new challenges, think process, and trust that continued development is the outcome.

Dr. Dweck's research demonstrates the strong correllation between a growth mindset and increased levels of development. And while it is possible to experience traits from both mindsets at varying times, individuals must remain focused on the process and the belief that intelligence can be developed. As I continue through the Front End Engineering course at The Iron Yard, I am committed to my belief that everyone starts from zero. By trusting the process and accepting failure, I am confident I will develop the intelligence needed to become a competent junior level developer.

### **Final Draft**

The growth mindset versus fixed mindset debate encompasses two ways of thinking related to individuals and their abilities to learn. Central to the debate is the belief that individuals are either pre-destined to obtain a certain level of intelligence, or that intelligence is fostered in all individuals through proper teaching techniques. Stanford professor Carol Dweck has discussed this "Nature vs Nurture" debate at length and champions the growth mindset as the most effective way to develop intelligence at a high level in any individual. Based on her research, it is clear that a growth mindset, and all the traits it entails, gives students at The Iron Yard the best chance to reach their full potential.

Several distinct traits are associated with growth and fixed mindsets. Common traits associated with a fixed mindset include a desire to cheat, to run from difficulty, to look for someone worse, and to believe that some people are just born with natural ability. Conversely, common traits associated with a growth mindset include the desire to engage deeply, to appreciate a challenge, to believe that intelligence can be developed, and an overall increase in confidence and happiness. Dr. Dweck has identified the fundamental requirements for individuals to reach their full potential. Those requirements, which she refers to as bridging the gap from not yet to yet, includes: praise, rewarding process, and a changed mindset. Educators, parents, and mentors should consider the appropriate way to give praise, reward process, and change the mindset of their pupils. In doing so, students will display more effort, strategies, engagement, and perserverance than peers trapped in a fixed mindset.

Recently, I experienced traits on both ends of the mindset spectrum. Attempting to accomplish a long-time goal, I began learning the guitar in December 2014. Within days, I was sure I would never reach a competent level of playing ability and even considered quitting. I was sure that people must be born with natural ability, and that I was not one of those people - a classic trait for a fixed mindset. However, I committed to a daily practice routine and slowly saw incremental improvement. Within months, I began receiving praise from friends about my hard work, and several mentioned that my practice time was paying off. Though no one made outrageous claims about me becoming some kind of guitar master, each comment motivated me to continue practicing in the future. My friends had praised me in a way that rewarded my process, and in turn it fostered a growth mindset within me. Going foward, I am confident that I will continue making incremental improvements if I continue my commitment to my practice routine.

At The Iron Yard, it is easy to see the various ways a person can fall into a fixed mindset trap. The course material is presented in an intensive way. Failure as a student is common. Undoubtedly, each cohort member will have thoughts about natural ability impacting overall success. However, by acknowledging that failure is part of the process and necessary for development, I believe it is possible to maintain the appropriate growth mindset needed throughout the course. By embracing new challenges, identifying incemental improvements, and trusting the process, every cohort member can reach his or her full potential.

Though there may be skeptics regarding growth and fixed mindsets, Dr. Dweck's research demonstrates the impact of a growth mindset on results. By focusing on embracing challenges and the belief that intelligence can be developed, every person has a better chance of reaching his or her potential. I've seen the results first hand when I started playing the guitar, and I plan to continue reinforcing those traits in the future.  As I continue through the Front End Engineering course at The Iron Yard, I am committed to my belief that everyone starts from zero. By trusting the process and accepting failures along the way, I am confident I will reach my full potential. Hopefully, I'll become a competent junior level developer along the way.
